July release notes (#6718)
adobe/react-spectrum: packages/dev/docs/pages/releases/2024-07-19.mdx

{/* Copyright 2024 Adobe. All rights reserved.
This file is licensed to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy
of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under
the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
governing permissions and limitations under the License. */}

import {BlogPostLayout, Hero} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
export default BlogPostLayout;

---

> description: For this summer release, we have been busy working on improving virtualization in many of our Spectrum components including TableView, ListView, and ListBox. Our Color Components are moving to RC, Toast focus management has been improved, we have been preparing for React 19 release along with many bug fixes and improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: For this summer release, we have been busy working on improving virtualization in many of our Spectrum components including TableView, ListView, and ListBox. Our Color components are moving to RC, Toast focus management has been improved, we have been preparing for React 19 release along with many bug fixes and improvements.
```

date: 2024-07-19
---
# July 19, 2024 Release

For this summer release, we have been busy working on improving virtualization in many of our Spectrum components including TableView, ListView, and ListBox. We have significantly reduced the complexity of our implementation, resulting in smaller bundle size, better performance, and improved stability. In our testing, this resulted in 14x faster per-frame render times on large tables due to better reuse of DOM nodes as you scroll. We are also working on bringing virtualization support to React Aria Components, which is available as an unstable API in this version.

> Our color picker components also are moving to RC! Focus management within Toasts has also been greatly improved, making announcements from screen readers clearer and more consistent. Thanks to [@thmsfchtnr](https://github.com/thmsfchtnr), press events now include coordinates, enabling interactions like our new [animated ripple button example](/react-aria/examples/ripple-button.html). And finally, in preparation for React 19, this release is now compatible with React 19 RC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our color components are also moving to RC! Focus management within Toasts have also been greatly improved, making announcements from screen readers clearer and more consistent. Thanks to [@thmsfchtnr](https://github.com/thmsfchtnr), press events now include coordinates, enabling interactions like our new [animated ripple button example](/react-aria/examples/ripple-button.html). And finally, in preparation for React 19, this release is now compatible with React 19 RC.
```

> Thank you to our ever growing list of contributors :heart: 

Reviewer 2: Slack syntax doesn't work here 😄 

```suggestion
Thank you to our ever growing list of contributors! ❤️
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Forgot the API updates section in the canvas?

date: 2024-07-19
---
# July 19, 2024 Release

For this summer release, we have been busy working on improving virtualization in many of our Spectrum components including TableView, ListView, and ListBox. We have significantly reduced the complexity of our implementation, resulting in smaller bundle size, better performance, and improved stability. In our testing, this resulted in 14x faster per-frame render times on large tables due to better reuse of DOM nodes as you scroll. We are also working on bringing virtualization support to React Aria Components, which is available as an unstable API in this version.

Our color components are also moving to RC! Focus management within Toasts have also been greatly improved, making announcements from screen readers clearer and more consistent. Thanks to [@thmsfchtnr](https://github.com/thmsfchtnr), press events now include coordinates, enabling interactions like our new [animated ripple button example](/react-aria/examples/ripple-button.html). And finally, in preparation for React 19, this release is now compatible with React 19 RC.

Thank you to our ever growing list of contributors! ❤️

> ## API updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### API updates
```

- Date and time
  - Refactor date segment width to take the space of placeholder or value  - [@ktabors](https://github.com/ktabors) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/6562)
- Collections
  - Support grid layout and tab navigation in GridList - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/6486)
  - Selection checkbox should always toggle regardless of `selectionBehavior` - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/6526)
  - Refactor collection internals in preparation for public API - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/6608)
  - Move RAC collections implementation into new package - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/6640), [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/6725)
  - Expose `buttonLabelBehavior` prop in ActionBar - [@ktabors](https://github.com/ktabors) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/6708)
- Icons

>   - The icons packages we depend on have been re-licensed to the more permissive Apache 2.0 license - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/6735)

Reviewer 2: maybe we should be specific that this is for Spectrum.

```suggestion
  - Spectrum icons have been re-licensed as Apache 2.0 - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/6735)
```
